Docs/review readme (#62)
ngworker/lumberjack: README.md

export class AppModule {}
```

See the [_Log drivers_](#log-drivers) section for more information.

### Using the `LumberjackService`

> You can use the `LumberjackService` by directly passing logs to its `log` method for short or simple use cases.However, we recommend implementing application-specific logger services instead. See the [_Best practices_](#best-practices) section.

Reviewer: You can use the `LumberjackService` by directly passing logs to its `log` method for short or simple use cases. However, we recommend implementing application-specific logger services instead. See the [_Best practices_](#best-practices) section.

Reviewer 2: I prefer the original structure of the sentence.

Author: What do you mean @LayZeeDK? The one in red??

What are you saying here @santoshyadavdev ? I don't see any difference between what you wrote and what it is already there.

Reviewer 2: I liked the red better.

}
```

> Then you can start logging. However, you'll also want to inject `LumberjackTimeService` to maintain a high level of testability.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then we can start logging. However, you'll also want to inject `LumberjackTimeService` to maintain a high level of testability.
```

### Default options

> Lumberjack's configuration is flexible. You can provide a full configuration object, a partial option set, or no options at all.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lumberjack's configuration is flexible. We can provide a full configuration object, a partial option set, or no options at all.
```

#### Default log levels

> When the `levels` setting is not configured, log levels are configured depending on whether your application runs in development mode or production mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the `levels` setting is not configured, log levels are configured depending on whether our application runs in development mode or production mode.
```

Log drivers should make it possible to configure the logging levels on a per driver basis.

> For example, we could use the default logging levels for the console driver and the critical and error levels for the **HTTP driver** as seen in the following example.

Reviewer 2: *and ... and* is not a good expression.

Author: > Where did you catch this obsession with putting words in **bold**? 🤔😄

Who knows, it is my tick I guess 😅

Reviewer 2: Can we remove the bold, please? It's distracting 🧐

> For example, we could use the default logging levels for the console driver and the critical and error levels for the **HTTP driver** as seen in the following example.

Reviewer 2: Where did you catch this obsession with putting words in **bold**? 🤔😄

}
```

> In the above snippet the config is passed down its constructor and assigned to the public `config` property. Lumberjack uses this configuration to determine which logs the driver should handle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the above snippet, the config is passed down its constructor and assigned to the public `config` property. Lumberjack uses this configuration to determine which logs the log driver should handle.
```

> There is nothing special about it. The only remarkable thing is that the config is passed down its constructor and assigned to the public `config` property. Lumberjack uses this configuration to determine which logs the driver should handle.

Reviewer: Maybe something like `In the above code snippet, the config is passed down its constructor and assigned to the public `config` property in the above code snippet. Lumberjack uses this configuration to determine which logs the driver should handle.` the problem is we are trying to say there is nothing special, which relates to either its magic or too easy.

#### Using a LumberjackLogPayload

> Your driver may need some extra data not provided by the `LumberjackLog`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We might want to add some extra data not present in the `LumberjackLog` to our log driver.
```

#### Creating a custom log driver module

> A driver module provides configuration and other dependencies to a log driver. It also provides the log driver, making it available to **Lumberjack**.

Reviewer 2: Again with the **bold**? 🙂

import { LumberjackLogDriverConfig, lumberjackLogDriverConfigToken } from '@ngworker/lumberjack';

export const consoleDriverConfigToken = new InjectionToken<LumberjackLogDriverConfig>('__CONSOLE_DRIVER_CONFIG__', {
  factory: () => inject({ ...lumberjackLogDriverConfigToken, identifier: 'ConsoleDriver' }),
});
```

> This is possible because the `ConsoleDriver` has the same configuration options as the `LumberjackLogDriverConfig`. We only have to include the driver identifier since it can not be predefined.

Reviewer 2: Always use *cannot*.
```suggestion
This is possible because the `ConsoleDriver` has the same configuration options as the `LumberjackLogDriverConfig`. We only have to include the driver identifier since it cannot be predefined.
```

> The driver identifier is a unique string that allows identifying one driver instance from other drivers and even from another lazy-loaded instance of itself.

Reviewer 2: Let's keep this one out of most of the documentation until we have a use for it.
```sugggestion
```

> The driver identifier is a unique string that allows identifying one driver instance from other drivers and even from another lazy-loaded instance of itself.

Reviewer 2: Let's keep this one out of most of the documentation until we have a use for it.
```sugggestion
```

> For adding custom settings, see [LumberjackHttpDriver](https://github.com/ngworker/lumberjack/blob/main/libs/ngworker/lumberjack/http-driver/src/lib/lumberjack-http-driver-root.module.ts).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add custom options, see [LumberjackHttpDriver](https://github.com/ngworker/lumberjack/blob/main/libs/ngworker/lumberjack/http-driver/src/lib/lumberjack-http-driver-root.module.ts).
```

import { LumberjackLogDriverConfig, lumberjackLogDriverConfigToken } from '@ngworker/lumberjack';

export const consoleDriverConfigToken = new InjectionToken<LumberjackLogDriverConfig>('__CONSOLE_DRIVER_CONFIG__', {
  factory: () => inject({ ...lumberjackLogDriverConfigToken, identifier: 'ConsoleDriver' }),
});
```

> This is possible because the `ConsoleDriver` has the same configuration options as the `LumberjackLogDriverConfig`. We only have to include the driver identifier since it cannot be predefined.

Reviewer: This is possible because the `ConsoleDriver` has the same configuration options as the `LumberjackLogDriverConfig`. You only have to include the driver identifier since it cannot be predefined.

For a more advanced log driver implementation, see [LumberjackHttpDriver](https://github.com/ngworker/lumberjack/blob/main/projects/ngworker/lumberjack/http-driver/README.md)

## Community drivers

> Note, you can use the [ngworker/lumberjack-custom-driver](https://github.com/ngworker/lumberjack-custom-driver/generate) template Git repository to start a separate Lumberjack log driver workspace.

> This is a list of some recommended Lumberjack community drivers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

If you want your driver listed here, open a PR and follow the same format.

> - [LumberjackFirestoreDriver](https://github.com/marcinmilewicz/lumberjack-firestore-driver), custom log driver for `ngworker/lumberjack`. It sends logs and stores them in [Cloud Firestore](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [LumberjackFirestoreDriver](https://github.com/marcinmilewicz/lumberjack-firestore-driver), community log driver using [Cloud Firestore](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore) as a log store.
```

## Best practices

> Every log can be represented as a combination of its level, creation time, message, and scope. Using inline logs with the `LumberjackService` can cause structure duplication and-or de-standardization.

Reviewer 2: Mention log payload.

The next table shows the different ways to interact with `Lumberjack` and the team recommendation level for each one.

### Lumberjack usage recommendations

| Logging Method                                  | Recommendation Level | Description                                                                                                                |
| ----------------------------------------------- | -------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Lumberjack Loggers`                            | High                 | Extend `LumberjackLogger` or `ScopeLumberjackLogger` and use the inherited method to build a logger                        |
| `LumberjackLogBuilder` with `LumberjackService` | Medium               | Create your `LumberjackLogs` using a `LumberjackBuilder`. Dispatch the created logs directly using the `LumberjackService` |

> | Inline logs with `LumberjackService`            | Low                  | Create your logs inline in the `LumberjackService#log` method.                                                             |

Reviewer 2: I think we should remove this. A home-made rating system feels a bit tacky 😄

> Continue reading to know more about the recommended best practice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Continue reading to know more about the recommended best practices.
```

Continue reading to know more about the recommended best practice.

### Loggers

The `LumberjackLogger` service is an abstract class that wraps the `LumberjackService` to help us create structured logs and reduce boilerplate. At the same time, it provides testing capabilities since we can easily spy on logger methods and control timestamps by replacing the `LumberjackTimeService`.

`LumberjackLogger` is used as the base class for any other logger that we need.

> This is the abstract interface of `LumberjackLogger`:

Reviewer 2: I didn't mean `interface`, I meant *interface* as in *API* 🙂

For a more advanced log driver implementation, see [LumberjackHttpDriver](https://github.com/ngworker/lumberjack/blob/main/projects/ngworker/lumberjack/http-driver/README.md)

## Community drivers

> Note, you can use the [ngworker/lumberjack-custom-driver](https://github.com/ngworker/lumberjack-custom-driver/generate) template Git repository to start a separate Lumberjack log driver workspace.

If you want your driver listed here, open a PR and follow the same format.

- [LumberjackFirestoreDriver](https://github.com/marcinmilewicz/lumberjack-firestore-driver), community log driver using [Cloud Firestore](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore) as a log store.

## Best practices

> Every log can be represented as a combination of its level, creation time, message, scope and payload. Using inline logs with the `LumberjackService` can cause structure duplication and-or de-standardization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Every log can be represented as a combination of its level, creation time, message, scope and payload. Using inline logs with the `LumberjackService` can cause structure duplication and/or denormalization.
```

For a more advanced log driver implementation, see [LumberjackHttpDriver](https://github.com/ngworker/lumberjack/blob/main/projects/ngworker/lumberjack/http-driver/README.md)

## Community drivers

> Note, you can use the [ngworker/lumberjack-custom-driver](https://github.com/ngworker/lumberjack-custom-driver/generate) template Git repository to start a separate Lumberjack log driver workspace.

If you want your driver listed here, open a PR and follow the same format.

- [LumberjackFirestoreDriver](https://github.com/marcinmilewicz/lumberjack-firestore-driver), community log driver using [Cloud Firestore](https://firebase.google.com/docs/firestore) as a log store.

## Best practices

Every log can be represented as a combination of its level, creation time, message, scope and payload. Using inline logs with the `LumberjackService` can cause structure duplication and-or de-standardization.

> Continue reading to know more about the recommended best practices designed to tackle this issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Continue reading to know more about the recommended best practices designed to tackle this issue.
```

  protected createErrorLogger(message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return this.createLoggerBuilder(LumberjackLevel.Error, message);
  }

  /**
   * Create a logger builder for an info log with the specified message.
   */
  protected createInfoLogger(message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return this.createLoggerBuilder(LumberjackLevel.Info, message);
  }

  /**
   * Create a logger builder for a trace log with the specified message.
   */
  protected createTraceLogger(message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return this.createLoggerBuilder(LumberjackLevel.Trace, message);
  }

  /**
   * Create a logger builder for a warning log with the specified message.
   */
  protected createWarningLogger(message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return this.createLoggerBuilder(LumberjackLevel.Warning, message);
  }

  /**
   * Create a logger builder for a log with the specified log level and message.
   */
  protected createLoggerBuilder(level: LumberjackLogLevel, message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return new LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload>(this.lumberjack, this.time, level, message);
  }
```

> By extending `LumberjackLogger`, you only have to worry about our pre-defined logs' message and scope.

Reviewer 2: Revert to "we".

  protected createErrorLogger(message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return this.createLoggerBuilder(LumberjackLevel.Error, message);
  }

  /**
   * Create a logger builder for an info log with the specified message.
   */
  protected createInfoLogger(message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return this.createLoggerBuilder(LumberjackLevel.Info, message);
  }

  /**
   * Create a logger builder for a trace log with the specified message.
   */
  protected createTraceLogger(message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return this.createLoggerBuilder(LumberjackLevel.Trace, message);
  }

  /**
   * Create a logger builder for a warning log with the specified message.
   */
  protected createWarningLogger(message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return this.createLoggerBuilder(LumberjackLevel.Warning, message);
  }

  /**
   * Create a logger builder for a log with the specified log level and message.
   */
  protected createLoggerBuilder(level: LumberjackLogLevel, message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return new LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload>(this.lumberjack, this.time, level, message);
  }
```

> By extending `LumberjackLogger`, we only have to worry about our pre-defined logs' message and scope.

Reviewer: By extending `LumberjackLogger`, you only have to worry about our pre-defined logs' message and scope.

#### Logger usage

> Now that we have defined our first Lumberjack logger let's use it to log logs from our application.

Reviewer: Now that you have defined our first Lumberjack logger let's use it to log logs from our application.

#### Simplifying with ScopedLumberjackLogger

An alternative to the `LumberjackLogger` interface, where we need to specify the lumberjack log scope manually, we could use the `ScopedLumberjackLogger`.

The `ScopedLumberjackLogger` is a convenient Logger and an excellent example of how to create custom Loggers according to your situation.

```ts
/**
 * A scoped logger holds methods that log a predefined log sharing a scope.
 *
 * Implement application- and library-specific loggers by extending this base
 * class. Optionally supports a log payload.
 *
 * Each protected method on this base class returns a logger builder with a
 * predefined scope.
 */
@Injectable()
export abstract class ScopedLumberjackLogger<
  TPayload extends LumberjackLogPayload | void = void
> extends LumberjackLogger<TPayload> {
  abstract readonly scope: string;

> 
>   constructor(protected lumberjack: LumberjackService<TPayload>, protected time: LumberjackTimeService) {
>     super(lumberjack, time);
>   }

Reviewer 2: Not needed for understanding. In fact, only needed for View Engine-compatibility.
```suggestion
```

The `ScopedLumberjackLogger` is a convenient Logger and an excellent example of how to create custom Loggers according to your situation.

```ts
/**
 * A scoped logger holds methods that log a predefined log sharing a scope.
 *
 * Implement application- and library-specific loggers by extending this base
 * class. Optionally supports a log payload.
 *
 * Each protected method on this base class returns a logger builder with a
 * predefined scope.
 */
@Injectable()
export abstract class ScopedLumberjackLogger<
  TPayload extends LumberjackLogPayload | void = void
> extends LumberjackLogger<TPayload> {
  abstract readonly scope: string;

  constructor(protected lumberjack: LumberjackService<TPayload>, protected time: LumberjackTimeService) {
    super(lumberjack, time);
  }

  /**
   * Create a logger builder for a log with the shared scope as well as the
   * specified log level and message.
   */
  protected createLoggerBuilder(level: LumberjackLogLevel, message: string): LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload> {
    return new LumberjackLoggerBuilder<TPayload>(this.lumberjack, this.time, level, message).withScope(this.scope);
  }
}
```

> The result `AppLogger` after refactoring to using the `ScopedLumberjackLogger` would be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The resulting `AppLogger` after refactoring to using the `ScopedLumberjackLogger` would be:
```

  providedIn: 'root',
})
export class AppLogger extends ScopedLumberjackLogger {
  scope = 'Forest App';

  forestOnFire = this.createCriticalLogger('The forest is on fire').build();

  helloForest = this.createInfoLogger('HelloForest').build();
}
```

Notice that now every log written using the `AppLogger` will have the `'Forest App'` scope

#### Using Loggers with a LumberjackLog payload

> As seen in the [Log drivers](#log-drivers) section, we can send extra info to our drivers using a `LumberjackLog#payload`.

Reviewer: As seen in the [Log drivers](#log-drivers) section, you can send extra info to our drivers using a `LumberjackLog#payload`.

}
```

The `AppLogger` usage remains the same using a `LumberjackLogger` or `ScopedLumberjackLogger`, with payload or without.

### LumberjackLogFactory

> Lumberjack recommended way of creating logs is by using a `LumberjackLogger`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Lumberjack's recommended way of creating logs is by using a `LumberjackLogger`.
```

}
```

The `AppLogger` usage remains the same using a `LumberjackLogger` or `ScopedLumberjackLogger`, with payload or without.

### LumberjackLogBuilder

Lumberjack recommended way of creating logs is by using a `LumberjackLogger`.

> However, there are some times that we want to create logs manullly and pass them to the `LumberjackService`.

Reviewer: However, there are some times that we want to create logs manually and pass them to the `LumberjackService`.

The `LumberjackLogBuilder` provides a robust way of creating logs. It's also useful for creating logs in unit tests.

> This is how we create logs manually:

Reviewer: This is how you create logs manually:

```ts
import { Component, OnInit, VERSION } from '@angular/core';

import { LumberjackLevel, LumberjackLogBuilder, LumberjackService, LumberjackTimeService } from '@ngworker/lumberjack';

import { LogPayload } from './log-payload';

@Component({
  selector: 'ngworker-root',
  templateUrl: './app.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./app.component.scss'],
})
export class AppComponent implements OnInit {
  title = 'lumberjack';
  private scope = 'Forest App';
  private payload: LogPayload = {
    angularVersion: VERSION.full,
  };

  constructor(private lumberjackService: LumberjackService<LogPayload>, private time: LumberjackTimeService) {}

  ngOnInit(): void {
    const helloForest = new LumberjackLogBuilder<LogPayload>(this.time, LumberjackLevel.Info, 'Hello Forest!')
      .withScope(this.scope)
      .withPayload(this.payload)
      .build();

    this.lumberjackService.log(helloForest);
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think we should replace this section with `LumberjackLogFactory`.
